##About Theta Tau at Old Dominion University

In late March 1988 Richard Jenkins, a sophomore in Mechanical Engineering bored with the existing engineering organizations, was pondering the idea of starting a fraternity devoted to the professional advancement of engineering at Old Dominion University. After having mustered the necessary faculty support, inquiries were made of Mr. Robert Pope concerning the possible formation of a Theta Tau local.

Mr. Pope's enthusiasm along with Rich's rapport with his fellow students led to the appointing of officers by Mr. Pope. Within three weeks an organizational meeting was held, and the members of the new fraternal society, Theta Tau Omega, decided to start active recruitment in the fall of 1988.

Over the summer of 1988, a temporary headquarters was established and newsletters sent out to the original members. Due to scheduling difficulties and personal reasons several of the original members dropped out or failed to return after the summer.

Rich, the first president, along with William Dunning, had their hands full when classes resumed in the fall. Apathy and discord, resulting from the members' diverse interests and background, nearly destroyed the fledgling organization. Vowing to keep the local society alive, the local officers dedicated themselves to establishing good internal relations during the semester.

The spring semester of 1989 was a major turning point for the organization. An honest effort was made to increase membership, resulting in the initiation of six new members and increasing the active roster to fifteen members. The society was also much more active with a well-balanced schedule of professional, social, and service events. By the end of the 1989 school year the petition for colony status had been submitted. Theta Tau Omega was now well established at Old Dominion University and spring left the society with two outgoing alumni, William Dunning and Andrew Austin.

Chris Sheets, president during the fall semester of 1989, led the society to colony status in November. Road trips to several local chapters Theta Tau introduced the colony to the brotherhood at chartered fraternities.

Returning to the office of president for the spring semester of 1990, Richard Jenkins made the primary objective of the colony to increase membership dramatically. With the assistance of Michael Brown, rush chairman, plans were set in place to secure at least as many pledges as members. As a result of these efforts, the colony inducted thirteen pledges. Participation in colony activities was at an all-time high. Fraternal relations with established Theta Tau chapters were secured during the southern regional convention at the University of Virginia Pi chapter, with six pledges and five members representing the colony in attendance.

The spring 1990 pledge class brought new members and ideas to the colony, long with string dedication to the ideals of fraternal fellowship. Nine members were in attendance at the initiation social at North Caroline State University Rho chapter, and seven travelled to Tennessee Tech Lambda chapter for their alumni picnic. During these travels, a realization that permanent headquarters for social events was vital, and June 1 saw the procurement of a new six bedroom house with meeting and social areas.

With imminent submission of this petition for chapter status, the brothers of Old Dominion University colony look forward to a lifetime of service and fraternal fellowship as a chapter of the organization that brought them together, Theta Tau.
